<u>
<h1>Introduction</h1>
</u>
<p>
To tell the truth, there is no versioning policy for SPAWK yet. I've added the file <code>lib/version</code> where the current release number is added by hand. That number will be embraced in the SPAWK tarballs' names and is in the form "M.N.C", e.g. 2.5.3, where "M" is the "major" release number, "N" is the "minor" release number and "C" is the "micro" release number. New "major" number, signals a new release with many new features added and probably not backward compatible, "minor" is a release with known bugs fixed and is always backward compatible, but not necessarily forward compatible, and "micro" means a new built (probably some bugs fixes, or tiny code fixes etc) with guaranteed full forward and backward compatibility.<br>
</p>
<p>
I begun with major release number of 2 as the release number 1 is assumed to be the <code>chtawk</code> package, which is the ancestor of SPAWK. <code>chtawk</code> is a package similar to SPAWK but implemented rather for UNIFY <a href='http://unify.com/Products/DataServer'>DataServer</a> DBMS than for <a href='http://mysql.com'>MySQL</a> Another major difference between <code>chtawk</code> and SPAWK is that <code>chtawk</code> is implemented via external awk functions rather than incorporating the DataServer's C API; that fact had, of course, great performance impact and was the main motive for creating SPAWK; another reason was the wide acceptance of MySQL as well as that MySQL is an open source software product, which I appreciate a lot.<br>
</p>
<p>
The minor number of 5, as well as the micro number of 3 was chosen completely at random. After the first release version (2.5.3), I will continue to add micro numbers from time to time, but I don't know when the minor number will be increased. If started earlier with that versioning stuff, I would had add a minor number when I added <a href='http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.1/en/secure-connections.html'>SSL</a> database connections. To increase the major number is another story; I think that a major number increase would arise as of <a href='http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/c-api-functions.html'>MySQL C API</a>'s changes consequence, or as of gawk extension libraries' revision (Arnold Robbins suggested a new method for adding built-in functions in gawk). For the time being, don't bother of the micro release number changes. For minor or major release number changes you'll be informed.<br>
</p>
<p>
The "big3" qualifiers maybe used in SPAWK versioning scheme. That is there maybe some "<i>(Alpha)</i>", "<i>(Beta)</i>" or "<i>(RC)</i>" qualifiers, e.g. 2.6.0 (Alpha), or 2.6.5 (Beta 1) etc. Those qualifiers mean that the release is not yet stable, but it's usable. To be more specific, let's give an example: We want to add a new <code>SPAWKINFO</code> element indexed "<code>version</code>" to contain the SPAWK module version. That will impose a minor number increase as that is a new feature which is backward compatible but not forward compatible. That means that if we use <code>SPAWKINFO["version"]</code> in a program runing the new release then that value will be empty in earlier realeases. So we must do a minor number increment. But, we may add some other <code>SPAWKINFO</code> indices soon, or some other useful features. We're not going to increase minor numbers for each new item added. That's the meaning of a qualifier at the end of the version number. In that case "(Alpha)" is a good choice, meaning that we may add other new features until the version will become "(beta)". Beta releases are just ready to become "(RC)" (release candidates) and will be stabilized soon.<br>
</p>